CONSOLE-3159: API changes for i18n (#1123)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/console/dynamic-plugins.md

};
```

> For a 4.11 release a `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation,

Reviewer: I'd make it clear that this annotation should only be used by plugins that need to work with 4.10 and 4.11. We'll eventually drop this annotation when 4.10 goes out of support in favor of the proper API.

is being introduced. It annotation will indicate whether the dynamic plugin containes 
localization resources, or not. If the annotation value is set to `true`, the localization
resources, from the namespace named after the dnyamic plugin(eg. `plugin__kubevirt`),
are loaded. If the annotation is set to `false`, or it is missing on the dynamic plugin CR,
the localization resources are not loaded.
Note: All API versions of Dynamic plugins CRD are checked for this annotation.

Prior to 4.11 release, localization resources are being loaded by default. In case these
resources are not present in the dynamic plugin, the initial console load will be slowed 
down. For more info check [BZ#2015654](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2015654)

For `v1` API version an additional array field is introduced, for listing all the available
i18n namespaces that given dynamic plugin contains. Only namespaces listed in the spec will we loaded.

```yaml
apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ConsolePlugin
metadata:
  name: acm
spec:
  displayName: 'Advanced Cluster Management'
  i18n:
    namespaces:

>       - plugin__acm

Reviewer: We'll need to decide if (1) we want to support multiple namespaces and (2) if we should ensure that namespace names are unique (i.e. by including the plugin name). It would be good to get stakeholder feedback and discuss at the next sync.

cc @christianvogt @bipuladh

Reviewer 2: An argument for multiple namespaces is that a shared library is being used and manages it's own namespace, then the host plugin must register the shared library namespace with it's plugin because the console must relay the call to the correct service hosting the locales for that shared library.

This however has potential to clash with other plugins that may be using the same library but different versions.

How can the console ensure that the shared library localization requests go to the correct service if multiple plugins use the same shared library with the same namespace?

The onus is also then on a plugin to prevent clashing with other plugins. This is problematic. The uniqueness of plugin is in its name and nothing else.

};
```

> In the 4.11 release a `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation,

Reviewer: I would move this below discussion of the API property we're introducing since it's not the recommended way and only here for backwards compatibility.

> In the 4.11 release a `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation,
> is being introduced. It annotation will indicate whether the dynamic plugin containes 
> localization resources, or not. If the annotation value is set to `true`, the localization
> resources, from the namespace named after the dynamic plugin (eg. `plugin__kubevirt`),
> are loaded. If the annotation is set to `false`, or it is missing on the dynamic plugin CR,
> the localization resources are not loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 4.11 release, a `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation
is being introduced. The annotation indicates whether the `ConsolePlugin` contains
localization resources. If the annotation is set to `"true"`, the localization
resources from the i18n namespace named after the dynamic plugin (e.g. `plugin__kubevirt`),
are loaded. If the annotation is set to any other value or is missing on the `ConsolePlugin` resource,
localization resources are not loaded.
```

> Note: All API versions of dynamic plugins CRD are checked for this annotation. This annotation
> should only be used by plugins that need to work with 4.10 and 4.11. This annotation will
> be eventually dropped this annotation when 4.10 goes out of support in favor of the proper API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: All API versions of `ConsolePlugin` are checked for this annotation. The annotation
should only be used by plugins that need to work with 4.10 and 4.11. This annotation will
be removed when 4.10 goes out of support in favor of the proper API.
```

Prior to 4.11 release, localization resources are being loaded by default. In case these
resources are not present in the dynamic plugin, the initial console load will be slowed 
down. For more info check [BZ#2015654](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2015654)

> For `v1` API version, an additional field is introduced, for enabling and loading i18n namespace that
> given dynamic plugin contains. The i18n namespace name follows `plugin__{plugin-name}` schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `v1` API version, an additional field is introduced for enabling and loading i18n namespace that
given dynamic plugin contains. The i18n namespace name follows `plugin__{plugin-name}` naming convention. If i18n is not enabled in the `ConsolePlugin` resource, no i18n namespaces will be loaded for the plugin.
```

};
```

In the `v1` API version, an additional field is introduced for enabling and loading i18n namespace that
given dynamic plugin contains. The i18n namespace name follows `plugin__{plugin-name}` naming convention.
If i18n is not enabled in the `ConsolePlugin` resource, no i18n namespaces will be loaded for the plugin.

```yaml
apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1
kind: ConsolePlugin
metadata:
  name: acm
spec:
  displayName: 'Advanced Cluster Management'
  i18n:
    enabled: true
```

In the 4.11 release, a `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation

> is being introduced. The annotation indicates whether the `ConsolePlugin` contains

Reviewer 3: Where is this annotation being introduced? Should plugins add it to the CSV? Maybe we should mention that.

Reviewer: It is added to the `ConsolePlugin` resource.

Author: So the annotation will be checked for DynamicPlugin CR.
